this next diagram is about a
transistorized ignition system
transistors are everywhere now so we
need to know how they work and how to
read them in a diagram in order to keep
this series short I'm going to make this
next video in three parts the first part
is how transistor works the second part
is how the transistor turns on a coil
and the third part is how to read all of
that in a diagram be sure to watch all
three transistors what exactly is a
transistor well according to Wikipedia
it's a semiconductor and it's used to
amplify and switch signals and powers
now for the purpose of this video we're
going to focus on its purpose as a
switch a switch here's two examples the
top one is a common toggle switch it is
moving parts and the bottom one is a
transistor it is a switch but it has no
moving parts and they can be extremely
tiny this is what they look like this is
how small they can be and this is where
they're located inside the circuit board
and this is how their diagrammed there's
two types of transistors one is a
negative positive negative and the other
one is a positive negative positive you
can tell the difference in a diagram by
looking at the arrow pointing away or
pointing to the base for this video
we're really not going to look at the
difference they're both switches so
we're going to look at their role as a
switch here's how transistors are
illustrated in a diagram there's a
couple words we need to know the
collector the base and the emitter
here's the typical diagram in
Diagnostics a lot of the auto
technicians will take the typical
diagram and change a couple of these
words to make them make a little bit
more sense for example the collector we
call the source or the source of power
or battery plus the base will call the
gate or the switch and the emitter is
the load or the motor
transistors are a lot like faucets water
comes from the source in a faucet and it
waits at the valve the flow is
controlled by that valve so you might
say the valve is the switch
there's moving parts because you have to
open that valve when the valve opens
water then can flow transistors are a
lot like faucets but instead of water
we have voltage that comes from the
source and the voltage waits at the gate
like the water waited at the valve now
the flow of this voltage is controlled
by the gate but instead of having moving
parts we have moving electrons and then
when the valve opens or the gate opens
in a transistor current can flow once
current flows the load now has what it
needs to operate so thinking of a
transistor think of a water and a valve
and you'll have a pretty good impression
of how it works now here's some simple
logic as we think about this whatever
comes from the source waits at the gate
so if we have battery voltage it waits
at the gate can't make it any farther
than that if the gate is open the source
can then get through it and make it all
the way down to the load and if the load
is good the source will then make it
work
and the motor can run now if the gate is
closed nothing can get through it and if
there is nothing at the source there's
not going to be anything at the gate and
then of course if the load is bad the
source can't make it anyway so the motor
won't run so we do have to have a good
load now here's a little diagram I got
off the internet that kind of helps
understand this a little bit as well you
have your collector your base or near
your meter now if there's nothing
flowing into the base nothing can flow
from the collector to the Mitter but if
you have something flowing into the base
then whatever comes to the collector can
go out to the emitter again if something
is flowing into the base then something
can flow
a collector to the emitter here's
another little diagram picture that kind
of shows how this works you would have
battery power coming in waiting into the
gate and once the gate is open then the
current can flow so that's how
transistors work so now we know how
transistors work they're actually
switches with no moving parts so let's
see now how transistor switches on a
coil